
------------
ABOUT KRB525
------------

krb525 is a tool for converting arbitrary Kerberos 5 tickets from one
client to another. It consists of a client program (krb525) and a daemon
program (krb525d). The daemon program needs access to services keys for
tickets to be converted. It can get access to these keys by either running
on a KDC and accessing the Kerberos 5 database directly or by getting them
from a keytab file. The daemon has a configuration file (krb525.conf)
which specifies the conversions it is allowed to make.

Please note this is software is UNOFFICAL and is not endorsed by
MIT.

This software is provided "AS IS". See the section on COPYRIGHT for
details.

The latest version of krb525 is available at:

ftp://ftp.ncsa.uiuc.edu/aces/kerberos/

--------------
USES of KRB525
--------------

There are three intended uses for krb525: converting cross-realm
credentials to local credentials, acting like a Kerberos su utility in
allowing authorized users access to tickets for other principals, and
granting tickets to users authenticated via some means besides
Kerberos.

--
Converting cross-realm credentials:

The intention here is that you have the same user with accounts in two
different Kerberos realms - e.g. jsmith@REALM.A.EDU and
johns@REALM.B.EDU. Assuming cross-realm authentication has been 
setup, the Kerberos 5 .k5login file give access to the unix accounts
seemlessly, there may be other services that work with Kerberos
tickets don't respect the .k5login file, for example the Andrew File
System.

Let's say that John Smith logs into REALM.B.EDU from
REALM.A.EDU. Since cross-realm has been done and he has correctly set
up his .k5login with an entry for jsmith@REALM.A.EDU he is able to
seemlessly log into the account johns. Assuming he forwards his
tickets he will now have a Kerberos ticket-granting-ticket, however it
will be for the remote user jsmith@REALM.A.EDU and not the local user
johns@REALM.B.EDU.

This normally would not cause any problems, but let's say REALM.B.EDU
was running the Andrew File System (AFS). Simply put, AFS uses
Kerberos tickets to control access to files, but does not respect the
.k5login file. What this means is that the user John Smith now finds
himeself logged into REALM.B.EDU but able to access his files since as
far as AFS is concerned his Kerberos identity is for some unknown user
jsmith@REALM.A.EDU and not the local user johns@REALM.B.EDU.

Obviously there are several ways to work this situation. First the
user could just run kinit and get a ticket for the local realm. This
is fine, but breaks the model of single sign-on that we are trying to
build. Another option is to add the remote user jsmith@REALM.A.EDU to
the local AFS cell and then the user could add this user to all their
access control lists for their files. Again this would work, but we
saw it as too high an administrative overhead both for the AFS
administrators having to create addition user enteries and the user
having to manage their access control lists.

So our choice was to have the krb525 utility convert their current
ticket-granting-ticket (jsmith@REALM.A.EDU for
krbtgt/REALM.B.EDU@REALM.A.EDU) into a ticket for the local pricipal
(johns@REALM.B.EDU for krbtgt/REALM.B.EDU@REALM.B.EDU). All this
entails is that the krb525.conf configuration file needs a client
mapping stating that the user jsmith@REALM.A.EDU is allowed to convert
their tickets to those of user johns@REALM.B.EDU. Then when the user
logs in they run krb525 (or it is run automatically for them somehow)
and then they have local credentials.

--
Kerberos su utility:

krb525 allowes authorized principals to get tickets for other client
principals that they are listed as being authorized to. This is
generally handy for changing to clients who do not have a password or
whose key is not available easily.

--
Granting Kerberos tickets

In our case we had users who were strongly authenticated, but by a
means other than Kerberos and they needed Kerberos tickets. Since they
were all on a tightly controled machine we simply created a special
client principal called "converter" and placed it's key in a keytab
file on that machine. krb525, running as root, could then use the
keytab file to authenticate to krb525d and request a ticket for the
user in question.

This involves the princpal "converter" having client mappings in the
krb525.conf file in order to convert it's tickets to those of the
target user.

-------------------------
Building and Installation
-------------------------

See the files BUILDING and INSTALLATION.

--------
SECURITY
--------

The following security features are built into krb525/krb525d:

 -The client and service authenticate using Kerberos 5 and use
  Kerberos 5 to sign and/or encrypt all sensitive parts of their
  communication.

 -The host that the client is connecting from can be restricted using
  the allowed_hosts list in krb525.conf. Note that the host is
  determined from the IP address in the incoming packets and not from
  any real authentication mechanism.

 -The client that can connect are restricted using the allow_clients
  list in krb525.conf.

 -Any client or service conversions are limited by the client_mappings
  and server_mappins lists in krb525.conf.

 -All error messages returned from the krb525d daemon to the krb525
  client are intentionally vague to prevent someone from gleaming
  informatino about the contents of the krb525.conf file.

 -When getting service keys from the Kerberos 5 database the krb525d
  daemons checks the validity of all outgoing tickets in the same
  manner the KDC does. This includes:
    -Check to make sure none of the principals are expired.
    -Checking to make sure the client's password has not expired or
     requires changing.
    -Checking to make	sure all of the ticket attributes (postdated,
     proxable, forwardable, etc.) are legal for the client and server.
    -Checking to make sure the client and server are not locked out
     (all tickets are dissallowed).

---------
COPYRIGHT
---------

The documentation and source code for the krb525 package is
copyrighted by the National Center for Supercomputing Applications
(NCSA). Permission to use, copy, modify and distribute this software
and its documentation is hereby granted, provided that both the
copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies of
the software, derivative works or modified versions, and any portions
thereof, and that both notices appear in supporting documentation.

NCSA ALLOWS FREE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE IN ITS "AS IS" CONDITION AND
DISCLAIMS ANY LIABILITY OF ANY KIND FOR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER
RESULTING FROM THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE.

------
AUTHOR
------

krb525 was written by Von Welch (vwelch@ncsa.uiuc.edu). All questions,
comments and bug reports should be directed to him.

----

$Id: README,v 1.1 1997/09/25 19:28:36 vwelch Exp $
